Background


One of the fundamental functionalities of Linux (and Linux-like OSs) is the ability to pipe commands. When the | character is used in a shell between two commands, the shell takes the output from the first command and “pipes” it to the second command as the input. You can try it yourself! If you run the command ls -la / | grep tmp on systems1, you should be able to see only the tmp directory output from ls -la. This is because you gave grep, a common search tool, the output of ls -la directly. There are many more applications of piping but that is for you to discover as necessary in your adventures/projects/jobs/etc etc etc.


The programming part


For this project I wrote a program that will act as a shell. 

	Display a command prompt and read in a command line from the user (the prompt must be CS361 >, otherwise it cannot be detected by the test script)

	My shell support basic piping like the unix shell.

1.	$ command Run command, with stdin and stdout connected to their usual files. When command finishes, the parent should output pid:%d status:%d\n (with the proper relevant values inserted into the format string), and then print the prompt again and wait for more input.

2.	$ command1 | command2 Run command1 as in #1, but redirects the output of command1 as input to command2. Note that there should be two instances of pid:%d status:%d\n output.

3.	$ command1 ; command2 Run command1 as in #1, wait for it to finish, and then run command 2 as in #1.


Also…
Shell handle the following signals:

SIGINT - Generated by Ctrl-C. This signal allows a user to terminate a running program. Your shell should not exit when user presses Ctrl-C or the process receives SIGINT but simply report that the SIGINT signal has been received by the shell. If the process receives SIGINT, you must print the string “caught sigint” on a line by itself, and then show the prompt again.

SIGTSTP - Generated by Ctrl-Z. This signal allows a user to terminate a running program. Your shell should not exit when user presses Ctrl-Z or the process receives SIGTSTP but simply report that the SIGTSTP signal has been received by the shell. If your shell receives 

SIGTSTP, you must print the string “caught sigtstp” on a line by itself, and then show the prompt again.

The shell does NOT need to support background processes, running more than one child at a time, or handling multiple chained pipes. Essentially, if anything not matching the use cases/requirements above is in question, you probably do not have to do it. Due to the breadth of this assignment, it is difficult to clarify every case in writing. Please ask in office hours or on Piazza if you have questions or need clarification.
